1. Download the miniconda installer, available here: https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html. As this is designed to work on a Windows system, we assume users have 64-bit CPUs, as these are the systems we developed and tested on. The following may work on 32-bit systems, but we cannot guarantee it. Ensure that when you run the installer, you can select the option to add miniconda to `PATH`, as it will make `conda` available as a command line utility universally, but this is not recommended. Instead, when running the following commands with conda, ensure you are in the `Anaconda Prompt`, which should be installed as a program available once the Miniconda install finishes.
2. In the root folder of this project, there is a `requirements.txt` file. This is a list of all relevant packages, recorded in such a way that `conda` can identify and download the packages listed. In order to keep the downloaded packages for this project separate from those required for other projects, we utilize virtual environments, which are provided among conda's utilities. To create a new virtual environment with all the required packages for this project, go to your Command Prompt in the `graph-visualizer` folder and run the command 

   `conda create --name <env> --file requirements.txt`
   
   You can set the name `<env>` to any singular word you desire (in our case, we use `visualizer`).
3. Activate the environment with the command `conda activate <env>`. Ensure the `<env>` name used here is consistent with that in step 2.

4. To run the main program is run through the main.py file. To run the program with the newly created conda enviorment you will do the following:
    1. Locate the newly created conda enviorment. This is where the python.exe file for the conda enviorment exists and you will need to use it to run the main.py file. On my local machine it is located at `C:/Users/PC/miniconda3/envs/visualizer/python.exe`. However the, `PC` username and `visualizer` enviorment name is specific to my computer, and you will need to replace it with the username you want to use on your computer and the enviorment name from your machine that was chosen in step 2. The follwing template can be used: `C:/Users/<username>/miniconda3/envs/<env>/python.exe`.
    2. Locate the main.py file, this can either be in the downloads, or wherever placed on the Desktop. On my machine it is in `C:\Users\PC\Desktop\Graph Visualizer`. However again, this is only on my machine. You will need to locate the location of your main.py.
    3. Afterwards its possible to combine the two previos steps to run the program, but remember to user quotation makes around the BOTH locations of the python.exe of your conda enviorment AND for the absolute path of the main.py location. For me the command is `"C:/Users/PC/miniconda3/envs/visualizer/python.exe" "c:/Users/PC/Desktop/Graph Visualizer/main.py"`. This together tells the anaconda prompt to run the main.py with the correct python.exe that is the one for your